Storytelling 5 - Project Checkpoint 1: Create Your Recommendation and Story

James Allen
July 27, 2021

1 - your initial thoughts and question(s) from exploring the Telco data during the Spreadsheets lesson and exercises

What is Telco? Phone? Internet? Combination of Phone and internet (Combo)?
Is there a TV option? Why or Why Not?
What are the contract terms? Am I locked into a contract time period? Locked into a price? What are the different prices per contract (phone, internet, combo)?
Are there any affiliated savings for the services? Promotional savings?
Any customer loyalty programs / rewards programs ?
How much does it cost? Phone, internet, combo
Averages / baseline / overtime
What is the market value / price of these products and how does Telco compare? Higher / lower / equal to
-incentives?

It looks like the lowest monthly prices are in the first few months and then there is a steady increase in price after the 25th month of service. This equates to a 28% increase every 10 months which does seem high.
The average monthly tenure of month to month (m2m) customers is 18 months
This puts m2m customers on the lower end of tenure avg and monthly payment avg.

Monthly Average:
Total $64
M2m $66
1yr $65
2yr $66

Looking at the data of the monthly averages, it looks like there is a range of $6. This is not a large difference and does not offer value or incentive for the extended plans since the price comparison is low.
I would like to further break down each plan and the avg monthly payment for phone, internet, combo compared to m2m, 1yr, 2yr for further analysis

Build the Story

1. Why are Month to Month (m2m) Telco customers churning?
 - customers are seeing a 28% increase in price every 10 months
 - m2m customers are churning at the 18 month point where prices continue to increase
 - $6 range between m2m, 1yr, and 2yr customers.
 - m2m customers taking advantage of low entry pricing and the leave as prices increase
2. Goal: Keep existing Telco customers and reduce churn with a focus on m2m customers.
3. Recommendation: Locked in m2m pricing (Standardized)
    Standard Premium pricing to add $6 range to m2m customers
    Maintain premium pricing up to and beyond 18 month point
    Continue premium charges past 18 month point
4. Action / Proposal: Create a higher standardized pricing convention for the m2m plans (higher than avg) and make that a locked in / fixed rate (premium).
    Customers are paying a premium for the m2m membership but have the piece of mind of no drastic price increase over time
    More likely to continue past 18 month tenure mark
    Premium price >= avg 1yr, 2yr, etc.

28% price increase over 10 months, take half, 14%, and make that a standard premium pricing
14% premium price increase = $9 more per month = $75 average bill
